Hacking into GNU Astronomy Utilities
====================================

This README file is only for the case when you have cloned the version
controlled source of GNU Astronomy Utilities (Gnuastro) and want to
start hacking into it. Gnuastro's version controlled source only
contains files that were actually written by hand and not
automatically generated. We have also avoided keeping duplicate files
when we have taken them from other packages (for example the GNU
Portability Library, Gnulib). Therefore, immediately after cloning,
Gnuastro is not ready to configure and run, you have to "bootstrap"
it. Bootstrapping is the process of doing all the automatic steps on
the raw source files and make everything ready for you to run
./configure.

All the operations that are necessary to prepare you to run
./configure in the version controlled source are managed by the
./bootstrap file in this directory. ./bootstrap is part of the Gnulib
and is configured with the ./bootstrap.conf file. Therefore, if you do
want to customize it, be sure to keep the ./bootstrap file untouched
and only do your changes in ./bootstrap.conf. ./bootstrap.conf is
heavily commented so you should be able to easily go through it.




Prerequisites
-------------

To run this script you will need the following programs

  - Gnulib and GNU Autoconf-archive. These two packages should be in
     the same directory (DEVDIR below). If you don't already have
     them, please run the following commands to clone them. Set the
     value of DEVDIR to any desired directory. These packages are
     regularly updated, so run `git pull' within the cloned
     directories to keep them up to date. Note that DEVDIR is very
     important for the final bootstrapping step below.

         $ DEVDIR=/home/yourusername/Development
         $ cd $DEVDIR
         $ git clone git://git.sv.gnu.org/gnulib.git
         $ git clone git://git.sv.gnu.org/autoconf-archive.git

     IMPORTANT NOTE: Be sure that DEVDIR doesn't contain the string
                     `gnulib'. Any occurance of `gnulib' will be
                     replaced with `autoconf-archive' to get to the
                     Autoconf-archives directory.

  - TeX Live installation to generate the pdf and dvi manuals. You
      will need the PGFPlots and TiKZ packages to generate some of the
      figures.

  - GNU Autotools: Autoconf, Automake and Libtool, to do all the
      preparations.

  - help2man to generate man pages from the --help output.

  - ImageMagick to convert some of the graphic formats to other
      formats to use in different manual outputs.




Bootstrapping
-------------

The bootstrapping process is very simple, just run the following
command (see above for DEVDIR).

   ./bootstrap --gnulib-srcdir=$DEVDIR/gnulib

Run ./bootstrap with the --help option for more information on running
this script.




CAUTION
-------

This file (README-hacking) is only distributed with the version
controlled source and not the tar.gz source. Without this file, the
./bootstrap script will complain about not being checked-out and
abort. So be sure to keep this file where ever you want to run
./bootstrap.