Documentation of GNU Astronomy Utilities
========================================

This directory contains the documentation (manual) of GNU Astronomy
Utilities (Gnuastro) and also all the files necessary for the Gnuastro
webpage. Note that only the basic files needed to make the webpage are
version controlled. The generated files are not.

Documentation (manual):
-----------------------

The documentation of Gnuastro is written in Texinfo.

Webpage files:
--------------

The webpage files are stored in the `www/gnuastro' directory. If you
actually checkout the webpage files from gnu.org, then there will also
be another directory: `MathJax', which keeps all the MathJax source
code. Although this directory is not too heavy (In total less than
40MB), it contains a very very very large number of files (~40,000)!!!
This makes all kinds of syncing tools you have very very very very
very very slow!

To solve this problem, after checking out the webpage files in the
`www' directory, you can remove the MathJax directory. My solution to
the problem was to checkout all the webpage files in another directory
that I don't sync. After the checkout is complete there, I remove the
`index.html' file and `manual' directory.

Update MathJax:
---------------

There is a script in the `MathJax' directory on the Gnuastro webpage
directory to update MathJax (`addmissing.sh'). You can get a recent
version of MathJax from its webpage and put it in the correct place
(see the comments in the script). That script will then add all the
new files from MathJax to the checked out files and then you can use
`cvs -nq update' and `cvs add' to add all the new files and
directories. Just note that CVS is an antique(!) and so you have to
add all the files in separate directories separately, first add the
directory, then CVS will find the untracked files inside it and add
them one by one! Unfortunately the GNU webpage runs on CVS.

Update the webpage documentation:
---------------------------------

To make the full documentation in all the formats, run the following
command (you have to be a Gnuastro developer to actually commit the
resulting files to the Gnuastro webpage.)

      $ ./forwebpage.sh
